README.md, before:

# libEnsemble Community Examples
A selection of libEnsemble functions and complete workflows from the community.
Many previously built-in libEnsemble examples have been moved here
for easier discoverability.

More information about each of these can be found in the various READMEs
and the ``test_*.py`` Python calling scripts.

Each of the Optimization Generator Function examples is tested regularly
on [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/Libensemble/libe-community-examples/actions)
and has [API documentation available online](https://libensemble.readthedocs.io/projects/libe-community-examples/en/latest/).


1. #### VTMOP
    *Optimization Generator Function*

    VTMOP is a Fortran 2008 package containing a robust, portable solver and
    a flexible framework for solving MOPs. Designed for efficiency and
    scalability to an arbitrary number of objectives, VTMOP attempts to generate
    uniformly spaced points on a (possibly nonconvex) Pareto front with minimal
    cost function evaluations.

    ```
    Chang, T.H., Larson, J., Watson, L.T., and Lux, T.C.H. Managing
    computationally expensive blackbox multiobjective optimization problems
    with libEnsemble. In Proc. 2020 Spring Simulation Conference (SpringSim '20),
    Article No. 31, pp. 1–12. DOI: 10.22360/springsim.2020.hpc.001
    ```

    Originally included in libEnsemble v0.8.0. See [here](https://github.com/Libensemble/libensemble/tree/v0.8.0/libensemble/gen_funcs/vtmop_libe).

2. #### LibE-DDMD
    *Complete Workflow*

    A complete Molecular-Dynamics / Machine-Learning adaptive
    simulation loop based on [DeepDriveMD](https://deepdrivemd.github.io/).
    The simulation function runs molecular-dynamics evaluations using DeepDriveMD's
    ``run_openmm.py``, while the persistent generator function runs the remaining
    machine-learning training and model selection operations on the output.
    The generator parameterizes subsequent MD runs by selecting outlier points.
    See ``ddmd/readme.md`` for more information. Constructed by the libEnsemble team
    as a proof-of-concept with help from [the DeepDriveMD team](https://deepdrivemd.github.io/team.html).

    Originally included in libEnsemble v0.8.0. See [here](https://github.com/Libensemble/libensemble/tree/v0.8.0/libensemble/tests/scaling_tests/ddmd).

3. #### DEAP-NSGA-II
   *Optimization Generator Function*

   A persistent generator function that interfaces with the [DEAP](https://github.com/DEAP/deap),
   evolutionary algorithms as generator functions. This example demonstrates the NSGA-II multi-objective optimization
   strategy. The generator evaluates the "fitness" of current population members
   and requests their evaluation from libEnsemble's manager. The manager
   returns corresponding "fitness values" for each objective.

   Last included in libEnsemble v0.8.0. See [here](https://github.com/Libensemble/libensemble/blob/v0.8.0/libensemble/tests/regression_tests/test_deap_nsga2.py).

4. #### RNN-Robustness
   *Complete Workflow*

   A generator-less workflow used to train a selection of neural network architectures on ALCF's Theta. An initial History array of hyperparameters
   are read from ``test_training_args.npz`` and provided to libEnsemble for distribution and evaluation by worker processes. See ``rnn/description.pdf``
   for more information about the included files.

5. #### ParMOO-Emittance

   A ParMOO persistent generator function is used to solve a biobjective accelerator emittance minimization problem, while exploiting problem structure. This directory contains sample-solvers for multiobjective optimization of particle accelerator setup by using either ParMOO inside libE or libE inside of ParMOO. Note that both methods produce equivalent results. See the ``parmoo-emittance/README.rst`` for more details, as well as detailed usage instructions and references.

Commit message:

initial commit adding the consensus generators, allocator, tests, etc

README.md, after:

# libEnsemble Community Examples
A selection of libEnsemble functions and complete workflows from the community.
Many previously built-in libEnsemble examples have been moved here
for easier discoverability.

More information about each of these can be found in the various READMEs
and the ``test_*.py`` Python calling scripts.

Each of the Optimization Generator Function examples is tested regularly
on [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/Libensemble/libe-community-examples/actions)
and has [API documentation available online](https://libensemble.readthedocs.io/projects/libe-community-examples/en/latest/).


1. #### VTMOP
    *Optimization Generator Function*

    VTMOP is a Fortran 2008 package containing a robust, portable solver and
    a flexible framework for solving MOPs. Designed for efficiency and
    scalability to an arbitrary number of objectives, VTMOP attempts to generate
    uniformly spaced points on a (possibly nonconvex) Pareto front with minimal
    cost function evaluations.

    ```
    Chang, T.H., Larson, J., Watson, L.T., and Lux, T.C.H. Managing
    computationally expensive blackbox multiobjective optimization problems
    with libEnsemble. In Proc. 2020 Spring Simulation Conference (SpringSim '20),
    Article No. 31, pp. 1–12. DOI: 10.22360/springsim.2020.hpc.001
    ```

    Originally included in libEnsemble v0.8.0. See [here](https://github.com/Libensemble/libensemble/tree/v0.8.0/libensemble/gen_funcs/vtmop_libe).

2. #### LibE-DDMD
    *Complete Workflow*

    A complete Molecular-Dynamics / Machine-Learning adaptive
    simulation loop based on [DeepDriveMD](https://deepdrivemd.github.io/).
    The simulation function runs molecular-dynamics evaluations using DeepDriveMD's
    ``run_openmm.py``, while the persistent generator function runs the remaining
    machine-learning training and model selection operations on the output.
    The generator parameterizes subsequent MD runs by selecting outlier points.
    See ``ddmd/readme.md`` for more information. Constructed by the libEnsemble team
    as a proof-of-concept with help from [the DeepDriveMD team](https://deepdrivemd.github.io/team.html).

    Originally included in libEnsemble v0.8.0. See [here](https://github.com/Libensemble/libensemble/tree/v0.8.0/libensemble/tests/scaling_tests/ddmd).

3. #### DEAP-NSGA-II
   *Optimization Generator Function*

   A persistent generator function that interfaces with the [DEAP](https://github.com/DEAP/deap),
   evolutionary algorithms as generator functions. This example demonstrates the NSGA-II multi-objective optimization
   strategy. The generator evaluates the "fitness" of current population members
   and requests their evaluation from libEnsemble's manager. The manager
   returns corresponding "fitness values" for each objective.

   Last included in libEnsemble v0.8.0. See [here](https://github.com/Libensemble/libensemble/blob/v0.8.0/libensemble/tests/regression_tests/test_deap_nsga2.py).

4. #### RNN-Robustness
   *Complete Workflow*

   A generator-less workflow used to train a selection of neural network architectures on ALCF's Theta. An initial History array of hyperparameters
   are read from ``test_training_args.npz`` and provided to libEnsemble for distribution and evaluation by worker processes. See ``rnn/description.pdf``
   for more information about the included files.

5. #### ParMOO-Emittance
   *Complete Workflow*

   A ParMOO persistent generator function is used to solve a biobjective accelerator emittance minimization problem, while exploiting problem structure.
   This directory contains sample-solvers for multiobjective optimization of particle accelerator setup by using either ParMOO inside libE or libE inside
   of ParMOO. Note that both methods produce equivalent results. See the ``parmoo-emittance/README.rst`` for more details, as well as detailed usage 
   instructions and references.

6. #### Distributed Consensus-based Optimization Methods
   *Generator and Allocator Functions*

   Four generator functions, a matching allocator function, a consensus-subroutines module, and tests for each. 
   All created by Caleb Ju at ANL as Given's associate Summer 2021. See the docstrings in each of the modules for more information.

   Last included in libEnsemble v0.9.3. See [here](https://github.com/Libensemble/libensemble/tree/v0.9.3/libensemble/gen_funcs).
